Add API design process notes (#541)
microsoft/ProjectReunion: specs/README.md

# Project Reunion Specs

This directory contains archived and in-progress spec documents for APIs in Project Reunion.

Documents in this directory are used as part of a feature or API review for features in development
and form the basis for public documentation and sample code. Write specs so they can be directly
consumed by an app developer or document author.

> **DO** Provide feedback by **commenting on active pull requests** tagged with

Reviewer: Nit: Capitalization after **DO** and **DO NOT** differs here than in other locations in the document.

[the "api-design" label.](https://github.com/microsoft/ProjectReunion/pulls?q=is%3Apr+is%3Aopen+label%3Aapi-design)

**DO** Provide feedback by **opening
[issues](https://github.com/microsoft/ProjectReunion/issues/new/choose) regarding spec documents in
this folder**. Specs in this folder are ready for implementation or have already been added to
Project Reunion.

> **DO** Create pull requests for new or updated specs when requested to do so as part of an issue

Reviewer 2: So I guess that in a feature iteration, we could presumably modify an older spec and asend a new PR? say we need to add a new API to an existing feature set. Or does that go in as a new feature once we create a new issue?

Author: The specs in this directory should be "live" - if they get new features, update the existing pull requests rather than making entirely new ones.

**DO** follow the spec template guidance for authoring samples and IDL.

**DO NOT** create a pull request from `user/<username>/<feature>` to `main` (see "Reviewing"
section).

### Reviewing APIs

Your API representative will help you finish the design document and get it reviewed with members of
the Windows API Design community. The process to finish the review is:

1. The representative creates a new pull request from `user/<username>/<feature>` to the `main`
   branch. Make sure the pull request mentions the original issue thread.

2. The representative schedules time with the Windows API Design community to review the pull
   request.

    - As the design group is spread out we prefer giving no less than 48h notice when reviewing APIs
    - Reviews are typically scheduled for Tuesdays 1-2pm PST/PDT or Thursdays 1-3pm PST/PDT
    - API reviewers should post in the initial issue thread with the date and time of the review

3. When scheduling a review, representatives should _only_ look at the _first_ commit in the pull
   request. API authors should _avoid_ pushing new commits to the pull request while review is

>    happening.

Reviewer: I suspect this rule may have a chilling effect on owners trying to fulfill Reunion principles by working in the open. Consider the scenario in which the owner opens a draft PR, performs a bunch of work in preparation for API review (along with the community), and is now ready to submit for Formal API Review™. The careful owner, skimming the rules again, sees Rule 3 and now has to make a weird choice:
* Squash all their atomic commits / rewrite history
    * Oops: Any user dependent on that PR (e.g. via fork, branch validation, co-contributor, etc.) is now in a broken state and has to perform a few Git rituals before they can contribute again
* Close the draft PR and re-open a new one with a single commit

I propose instead that the review representatives look at all changed files, as of the _last_ commit submitted for review (or last commit that made it in before the scheduled review window). The owner can be asked to provide a set of changes, up to a particular commit, by tacking on that last commit to the Files Changed URL, e.g. `microsoft/ProjectReunion/pull/541/files/42e2f9e7255aa9a2fe41083af83c56b948c1ca53`. This can alternatively be accomplished via the Changes from X Commit dropdown that after clicking the Commits tab.)

Author: Good point. The current description is my faulty remembrance of how we did this for a previous review, where instead what happened was someone made a branch and merged from the `user/...` branch into it as a single commit.

I'll use the notifications review as an example.

The API design representative owns the quality and shape of the APIs for their area. Representatives
are free to ignore or modify RECOMMEND markers, but should reply back to the comment thread
indicating their reasoning. We use review commentary to adjust our design guidelines over time.

### Additional Links

-   [.NET API Design](https://github.com/dotnet/runtime/blob/main/docs/project/api-review-process.md)
-   [MIDL 3 Specification](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/uwp/midl-3/)

## Specification Notes

**DO** write specification templates as if they will be read by a developer trying to understand how
to use the API and feature.

**DO** include links to existing types, pointers into https://docs.microsoft.com when providing
converged features.

**DO** describe how packaged, unpackaged, AppContainer and Full Trust applications will use the
feature.

**DO NOT** reference Windows-internal features, plans, or scheduling. This includes links to
internal specifications.

> **DO** use "http://task.ms/12345" links if necessary to reference internal tasks or deliverable

Reviewer: ```suggestion
**DO** use "https://task.ms/12345" links if necessary to reference internal tasks or deliverable
```

| Reviewer              | Person providing commentary on an API under review                                                                                                       |

For additional help, create a new `api-design` tagged issue and assign it to @jonwis for assistance.

### Authoring an API Spec

For Project Reunion team members, the spec and API design workflow is:

1. Ensure your proposal is approved and in plan.

2. Create a new working branch `user/<username>/<feature>` or work in your fork of the Project
   Reunion repo.

3. Create a new folder for your spec under the `specs` folder: `/specs/<feature>`

4. Author your spec using the [spec template](spec_template.md). Please use relative links for
   images or other assets in the folder. Be sure to read and follow the commented instructions in
   the template.

5. Work with your API design representative and iterate on the specification in your branch as much
   as you see fit.

When your spec is ready for review, your API representative will help guide you through the
remainder.

**DO** follow the authoring guidelines from [the contributor's guide](../docs/contributor-guide.md).

> **DO** follow the spec template guidance for authoring samples and IDL.

Reviewer 3: The 'spec template guidance' is commentary embedded inside spec_template.md?

I'd expect given past expect but as worded it's not necessarily clear to someone new
CONSIDER: clarifying

**DO NOT** create a pull request from `user/<username>/<feature>` to `main` (see "Reviewing"
section).

### Reviewing APIs

> Your API representative will help you finish the design document and get it reviewed with members of

Reviewer 4: Are the Windows/WinRT API design guidelines public?

Author: Coming soon! They're huuuge and need a round of densification and cleanup. See https://microsoft.visualstudio.com/OS/_git/apireview for the source and I'll be pushing a clone here to work on over the next month or so.

the Windows API Design community. The process to finish the review is:

1. The representative creates a new pull request from `user/<username>/<feature>` to the `main`
   branch. Make sure the pull request mentions the original issue thread.

2. The representative schedules time with the Windows API Design community to review the pull
   request.

    - As the design group is spread out we prefer giving no less than 48h notice when reviewing APIs

>     - Reviews are typically scheduled for Tuesdays 1-2pm PST/PDT or Thursdays 1-3pm PST/PDT

Reviewer 5: Given the potential international audience, perhaps

```suggestion
    - Reviews are typically scheduled for Tuesdays 1-2pm or Thursdays 1-3pm (Seattle local time).
```

so people outside North America don't have to try to figure out what "PST" means. I mean, we're kind of lucky that Pitcairn Standard Time is also GMT-8.
